# OceanLotus

Based on open-source intelligence, the [Center for Threat-Informed
Defense](https://ctid.mitre.org)
team created the below scenario leveraging techniques seen from OceanLotus in the wild.
We have adapted the scenario based on tools and resources available at the time.

## Adversary Overview

[OceanLotus](https://attack.mitre.org/groups/G0050/) is a cyber threat actor aligning to
the interests of the Vietnamese government. First seen in 2012, OceanLotus, OceanLotus
targets private corporations in the manufacturing, consumer product, and hospitality
sectors as well as foreign governments, political dissidents, and
journalists.<sup>[1](https://blogs.360.cn/post/oceanlotus-apt.html)
[2](https://www.mandiant.com/resources/blog/cyber-espionage-apt32)</sup> OceanLotus
leverages commerically available tools and custom malware to execute strategic web
compromises against victim networks. Specifically, the group‚Äôs campaigns usually involve
phishing, watering hole attacks, spyware, DLL side-loading, DNS tunneling, and data
exfiltration. Between February 2018 and November 2020, OceanLotus launched several
spyware attacks against Vietnamese human rights activists, bloggers, and nonprofit
organizations, believed to be a result of the government‚Äôs efforts to censor
pro-democratic
rhetoric.<sup>[3](https://www.amnestyusa.org/wp-content/uploads/2021/02/Click-and-Bait_Vietnamese-Human-Rights-Defenders-Targeted-with-Spyware-Attacks.pdf)</sup>

Associated Groups: APT32, SeaLotus, APT-C-00

## Emulation Overview üìñ

This scenario focuses on macOS and Linux environments; therefore, no Windows hosts are
used in this scenario.

üëã Not emulated: Prior to beginning the plan, the user has already received an email
attachment and downloaded it. Since the document exists before the plan beigns, it
bypasses initial Gatekeeper checks. Due to time constraints and lack of recent CTI
reporting on macOS, we prioritized an assumed breach approach to focus on follow-on
actions.

Hope Potter (hpotter) double-clicks `conkylan.app` (unicorn in Vietnamese), believing it
to be a Word document. The Word document is actually an application bundle. Once opened,
the app launches a decoy Word document, executes a shell script, drops the second stage
payload files, connects to the command and control server, and establishes persistence.
OceanLotus then performs discovery, which leads them to find an unencrypted SSH key.
They use this key to access the Linux server and download Rota Jakiro onto it.
Persistence is established by modifing desktop autostart files and bashrc configuration
files. Then OceanLotus performs discovery using shared objects for all mounted drives
connected to the server. Finding none, OceanLotus collects PDF files and exfils the
documents for later analysis.

![Diagram walking through how OceanLotus infects a macOS host, moves to a Linux host and
exfils data](./Resources/images/OperationsFLowBlackBG.jpeg)

## Quick Links

### For Engineers üíª

#### Resources

The [Resources Folder](./Resources/) contains the emulated software source code.

The [Binaries.zip](./Resources/Binaries/binaries.zip) contains all executables in one
zip file for easy download. The password is `malware`.

All other pre-built executables have been removed. To rebuild the binaries, follow the
documentation for the respective implant.

#### Emulation Key Software

- [OSX.OceanLotus](./Resources/OSX.OceanLotus/)- OSX.OceanLotus is a macOS backdoor
  written in C++ & Objective-C that has been used by OceanLotus since at least 2015.
  OSX.OceanLotus uses a modular communication library to communicate with the C2 via
  HTTP and can conduct downloading, uploading, command execution, and persistence.

- [Rota Jakiro](./Resources/rota/) - Rota Jakiro is a Linux backdoor that has been used
  by OceanLotus since at least 2021. Rota Jakiro communicates with the C2 over TCP and
  is distintive in it's use of shared objects for managing capabilities. Rota Jakiro
  only runs one instance of itself per host and can conduct downloading, uploading, and
  persistence.

#### Scenario Walkthrough

- [Emulation Scenario](./Emulation_Plan/OceanLotus_Scenario.md) - Step by step
  walkthrough of scenarios for purple team operation.

### For Analysts üîé

- [Operation Flow](./Operations_Flow/Operations_Flow.md/) - High-level summary of the
  scenario and infrastructure with diagrams.
- [Intelligence Summary](./Intelligence_Summary/Intelligence_Summary.md) - General
  overview of the adversary with links to reporting used throughout the scenario.

## Connect with us üó®Ô∏è

We üíñ feedback! Let us know how using this plan has helped you and what we can do better.

Email: ctid@mitre.org <br>
LinkedIn: https://www.linkedin.com/showcase/center-for-threat-informed-defense/

Also see the guidance for contributors if are you interested in contributing or simply
reporting issues.

## How Do I Contribute?

### CTI Contributions

We are trying something new using OceanLotus as our testcase. We wanted to find a way to
increase information sharing while also giving credit to contributors. Check out our
[Contributing
Wiki](https://github.com/center-for-threat-informed-defense/adversary_emulation_library/wiki/Contributing#contribute-open-source-intelligence-for-an-adversary)
for more information on how to contribute CTI (open-source).

### Code Contributions

When emulating an adversary, our CTI teams often propose an open-source based CTI
Emulation Plan that is rich in ATT&CK techniques, uses a plethora of interesting
implants, and is complex in nature. Our small team cannot replicate in a few months what
a nation-state has spent years building, so the plan is often pruned and simplified to
fit the time and resources available.

On average ~30-40% of the proposed CTI Emulation Plan is actually developed. We
encourage the community to help build the other 60-70%. We would love for you to
contribute a feature, functionality, or step from our proposed emulation plan. There are
a couple of catches: it must be well integrated, tested, documented, and cited. Check
out the issues for functionality that we did not have time to emulate (i.e. byte
shifting, encryption, and upload capabilities! We hope to have some smaller items to
enable others to become familiar with our code base. Happy hacking!

Please submit
[issues](https://github.com/center-for-threat-informed-defense/ocean-lotus/issues) for
any technical questions/concerns or contact
[ctid@mitre.org](mailto:ctid@mitre.org?subject=subject=Question%20about%20ocean-lotus)
directly for more general inquiries. If you wish to contribute, please review
[CONTRIBUTING.md.](/CONTRIBUTING.md)

## Liability / Responsible Usage

This content is only to be used with appropriate prior, explicit authorization for the
purposes of assessing security posture and/or research.

## Notice

Copyright 2023 The MITRE Corporation. Approved for public release. Document number CT0084

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not use this
file except in compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy of the License
[here](http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0).

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software distributed under
the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
KIND, either express or implied. See the License for the specific language governing
permissions and limitations under the License.

This project makes use of MITRE ATT&CK¬Æ

[ATT&CK Terms of Use](https://attack.mitre.org/resources/terms-of-use/)
